# mobileEPortfolio
This artifact was created in the class Mobile Architecture & Programing during the 20EW4 term. It is an app that works as a portfolio. The app creates a user profile that has user and login information stored in a SQlite database. It opens a few websites the user enters in their profile. It also uses the Google Maps API and connects to the user’s LinkedIn profile. It gives the user the ability to write and load text files, intended to be used as a bio for the user. Lastly, it allows the user to enter events into the calendar already on their phone.

I included this item because it showcases a variety of skills. From design, to implementation, to refinement, I created everything from scratch. Starting with the creation of the database to creating the program to interact with it. This database can create, search, and delete an entry. It also displays a security mindset as it checks all user input and user credentials before it lets the user access the app. It also shows my ability to work with different API’s. I made several improvements to this app – ranging from general functionality and flow improvements to major security issues. While making the enchantments, I found a bug where once logged in the user could edit other database entries if the user knew the name entered. This was corrected so that the user can only edit their information.

I met all the planned improvements for this project, and I also made some enhancements to additional aspects of the project I found while testing the program as mentioned above. There is one more planned enhancement I have left to do on this project. I found a bug in the program where if a user attempts to log in with a deleted profile, the project crashes. I suspect this is caused from the deleteUser() function from the file PDHandler.jave file not functioning properly. I have a temporary fix in place where if that event happens it starts a new activity. Essentially just reloading the same page. While this may not be ideal, it keeps the program from crashing.

I really enjoyed revisiting this project. This project was originally given to me about halfway through my degree program. To come back to it now has really helped me to realize how much I have improved as a developer. One thing I learned while improving this was to keep the design simple. It started off too complicated, now that I have simplified it, it has improved greatly. My main challenge also came from changing the design. The base code was mainly all already there. However, moving different functions to different pages, things got a lot more complicated than I was anticipating. I overcame this by getting organized. I made a flowchart in a note pad and used that as my reference point. This project really helped me to practice and improve my ability to design and plan out a project.
